doc: add PZB and LZB section (#309)
DGEXSolutions/osrd-website: content/docs/railway-wiki/signalling/spacing/ks/lzb/_index.en.md

---
title: "Linienförmige Zugbeeinflussung (LZB)"

> linkTitle: "Linienförmige Zugbeeinflussung (LZB)"

Reviewer: In the hierarchy, I'd shorten it (same for PZB):
```suggestion
linkTitle: "LZB"
```

weight: 30_000
---

<!-- script to auto-render KaTeX extension $$..$$ for outline formula, \\(...\\) for inline formula -->
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/katex@0.15.3/dist/katex.min.css" integrity="sha384-KiWOvVjnN8qwAZbuQyWDIbfCLFhLXNETzBQjA/92pIowpC0d2O3nppDGQVgwd2nB" crossorigin="anonymous">
<script defer src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/katex@0.15.3/dist/katex.min.js" integrity="sha384-0fdwu/T/EQMsQlrHCCHoH10pkPLlKA1jL5dFyUOvB3lfeT2540/2g6YgSi2BL14p" crossorigin="anonymous"></script>
<script defer src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/katex@0.15.3/dist/contrib/auto-render.min.js" integrity="sha384-+XBljXPPiv+OzfbB3cVmLHf4hdUFHlWNZN5spNQ7rmHTXpd7WvJum6fIACpNNfIR" crossorigin="anonymous"
    onload="renderMathInElement(document.body);"></script>
<script src="https://polyfill.io/v3/polyfill.min.js?features=es6"></script>
<script id="MathJax-script" async src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/mathjax@3/es5/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>

## Overview

> The **Linienförmige Zugbeeinflussung (LZB)** is a continuous automatic train control system used to ensure safe and efficient operation at high speeds. Unlike the **Punktförmige Zugbeeinflussung (PZB)**, which transmits discrete signal information at fixed track points, the LZB enables **continuous bi-directional data exchange** between the train and the trackside control center. This allows for real-time supervision of speed and position and forms the basis for cabin signalling at speeds exceeding 160 km/h.

Reviewer: Not mandatory: adding a link to PZB page would be nice.

   - and automatically applies braking if limits are exceeded.

3. **LZB Control Center**  
   The control center transmits **Movement Authorities (MAs)** to the trains within the controlled area, defining:
   - the permissible target distance,
   - the permitted speed at each section,
   - and other route-specific restrictions like gradients

## Functionality

During operation, the train continuously reports its position to the LZB center. In return, it receives updated **target data** like actual speed (\\(v_{act}\\)), setpoint speed (\\(v_{set}\\)), target speed (\\(v_{target}\\)) and target distance.

{{< figure src="/images/docs/railway-wiki/signalling/ks-signalling/lzb/LZB_Parameters.png" width="740px" >}}

*based on: Pachl (2022)*

The onboard unit calculates **braking curves** for different supervision thresholds:

- **Permitted Speed Curve** – permissible maximum speed at each position.
- **Emergency Brake Curve** – triggers an emergency brake if the train fails to decelerate sufficiently.

The braking curve that is set by the onboard unit is based on:

- maximum track speed
- slope
- braking percentage of the train

> The next target point is displayed up to 10.000 m in front of the train. If there is no restriction the speed limit equals the maximum track speed or the maximum possible speed of the train itself. (*Murr, 1991*)

Reviewer: As discussed: it may (not 100% sure) be an exceptional/temporary speed-limit.
After further check, we may remove the 'no restriction' part which is messing with the comprehension.

> The next target point is displayed up to 10.000 m in front of the train. If there is no restriction the speed limit equals the maximum track speed or the maximum possible speed of the train itself. (*Murr, 1991*)

Author: The speed limit equals the maximum track speed or the maximum possible speed of the train itself.

## Braking Curves

> For LZB there exist twelve braking curves with values between 0,115 und 1,10 \\(m/s^2\\). The value of the emergency braking curve is about 40% higher than the permitted speed curve. 

Reviewer: For km/h the mathematical display is not used, so we should probably remove it here (and in table below andd PZB) as well.
Depending on the "functionnality" part we may even remove completely mathematical display for this page.

In **Partial Block Mode**, the LZB subdivides a block into several smaller **LZB subsections**. Each subsection can be individually monitored and released as the train progresses, allowing the following train to enter the same block earlier. This dynamic release mechanism increases line capacity significantly while maintaining safe separation between trains. (*Pachl, 2022*) The partial block principle thus enables higher traffic density and shorter headways, which are especially important for high-speed or high-frequency railway operations. The typical length of a LZB subsection is about 1200 m (*Busse, 2021*)

The picture below shows the Partial Block Mode. Train 1 occupies the block between the two main signals. Train 2 is a LZB train and is therefore allowed to enter the block until the section marker. Train 3 is not equipped with LZB and is therefore not allowed to enter the occupied block.

{{< figure src="/images/docs/railway-wiki/signalling/ks-signalling/lzb/LZB_Partial_Block.png" width="740px" >}}

> ## Assumptions for a simplified OSRD-Model

Reviewer: Nit: It looks like we have all the informations, but it's a bit hard to read/connect IMO.
**We can keep it like that**, but if you come with a clearer arrangement it would be nice.

Maybe:
- remove the first level of dotted list: just (short) paragraphs separated by blank lines.
  - could allow for some precisions on implications of the choices
- regroup all the info about braking curves picking (the dedicated paragraph could have dotted list)
  - final model target
  - possible additional simplification
  - justifications about the model/how we chose that

- Permitted speed curve is based on the emergency braking curve
- The braking curve is constant over the whole braking distance

> - LZB-trains have a sight distance of 10.000 m

Reviewer: I don't understand the implication of that: if we ever have a search for the objects in front of the train there is no need to go more than 10km?
I don't know of anything like that currently, but it may change if we add dynamic simulation.

> - The slope for choosing the braking curve is calculated wihtin these 10.000 m

Reviewer 2: `The slope used to choose the braking curve is the [average/max slope] calculated within these 10.000 m`
Choose the correct word in the brackets. I'm not 100% sure but I do remember it being average, but I might be wrong.

- The following procedure was used to determine the necessary braking curves:
   - The average deceleration of each speed category was calculated and the corresponding braking curves was chosen. The resulting curves are also the ones that are used the most.

   {{< figure src="/images/docs/railway-wiki/signalling/ks-signalling/lzb/LZB_Braking_Curve_Set_P_Model.png" width="740px" >}}

   - The resulting curves for ≤ 200 and ≤ 250 km/h were the same so they were put together in one category
   - This results in the following braking curves that must be set for passenger trains:

      | Slope [‰] | ≤ 160 km/h | 160 - 250 km/h | 250 - 300 km/h |
      | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
      | ≤ 5 | 7 | 6 | 5 |
      | ≤ 12,5 | 6 | 5 | 4 |

   - The corresponding deceleration (permitted speed curve) values that must be set for passenger trains depending on the maximum train speed and slope are as follows:

      | Slope [‰] | ≤ 160 km/h | 160 - 250 km/h | 250 - 300 km/h |
      | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
      | ≤ 5 | 0,57 | 0,51 | 0,45 |
      | ≤ 12,5 | 0,51 | 0,45 | 0,39 |
      

> 		*note for OSRD: deceleration in other tools is 0,5 for all passenger trains (note can be removed later)*

Reviewer: Ah I didn't understand it before reading this comment.
I would go for (ditto for freight below):
```suggestion
		*Possible further simplification for OSRD: deceleration in other LZB-modeling tools is 0,5 for all passenger trains*
```

Going the "simple" way (one value) could be much easier: we could use the const braking value existing in OSRD.
The limitation of modeling like that (in addition to limiting slope accuracy) is that we wouldn't be able to have different values for RS used both in France-BAL and in Germany-LZB (but do we want different values in that case?).

In **Partial Block Mode**, the LZB subdivides a block into several smaller **LZB subsections**. Each subsection can be individually monitored and released as the train progresses, allowing the following train to enter the same block earlier. This dynamic release mechanism increases line capacity significantly while maintaining safe separation between trains. (*Pachl, 2022*) The partial block principle thus enables higher traffic density and shorter headways, which are especially important for high-speed or high-frequency railway operations. The typical length of a LZB subsection is about 1200 m (*Busse, 2021*)

The picture below shows the Partial Block Mode. Train 1 occupies the block between the two main signals. Train 2 is a LZB train and is therefore allowed to enter the block until the section marker. Train 3 is not equipped with LZB and is therefore not allowed to enter the occupied block.

{{< figure src="/images/docs/railway-wiki/signalling/ks-signalling/lzb/LZB_Partial_Block.png" width="740px" >}}

## OSRD-modelinng

Braking curve is based on the permitted speed curve.

> Warning curve and emergency braking curve is not modeled.

Reviewer 2: `are` or `Warning and emergency braking curves are not modeled.`

The braking curve is constant over the whole braking distance.

The constant deceleration is used for braking to a full stop, for speed changes and for the spacing and routing requirements.

> For Partial Block Mode LZB section markers are the borders of the block.

Reviewer: Clearer IMO (unless I had a bad understanding, which is good to know anyway):
```suggestion
For Partial Block Mode, LZB signals are placed at the entry of LZB subsections.
```
